The Digital Declaration of Independence with EmbassyOS
Disclaimer: I work for Start9labs.
What I want to highlight in this article is this: Technology exists. And it can be used in two ways.
It can serve you
It can enslave you

I will return to this, but first must establish the context that I believe sets us up particularly well.
Here goes.
Covid hysteria is hopefully the final straw. This is the wake up call to responsibility and ultimately independence that I have been longing for, because I want to stress: You don't get independence if you shirk your responsibilities by refusing to grow up or by merely asking for it. You must make it a reality yourself.
The global push to suddenly deny us bodily autonomy not just to the point where certain substances are made irrationally illegal (substances like psychedelic drugs etc; an already an inexcusable violation) has given way  to us opening up our blood streams to experimental, grossly unscientifically developed, and demonstrably ineffective vaccinations against our will for a disease that for the majority of humanity, is less fatal than your average flu.
We have watched as western, civilized and apparently democratic nations have turned themselves into prisons against all logic assisted by power drunk tech platforms with now essentially overt agendas all in obvious sycophancy to global institutions shamelessly telling us that we will soon own nothing, eat bugs, rent forever, be "carbon neutral" (i.e have our consumption of not just food, but energy be no longer our decision) the list goes on…..
It is impossible to deny the Orwellian contradictions between what is obviously reality and what we are required to believe in order to remain…for lack of a better term - presentable. (Not to mention employable.)
But what I'd like to point out is that this is just a continuation of a trend. Life for me, as a passionate advocate of individual liberty - has been intolerable since everything took a turn for the worse in September 2001 but I was just a kid then so my frame of reference was barely established. What I do know is this: our liberties our disappearing at an accelerating rate. And most painfully this is certainly due to apathy on an individual level.
Acceptance of technology designed to abuse us has meant us sleepwalking into a digital dictatorship.
It is not how technology is used that matters. It's the design of technology that matters.
Technology is the most important factor in any discussion of liberty and society at large. Our usage of it determines whether or not we are masters of our own destiny, or mere slaves to those to whom we sacrifice our independence when we refuse to act like adults.
Let's take communication. A person who is interested in preserving their rights should not take the risk of putting themselves in a position where those rights can be violated. Doing so and then being annoyed if and when your rights are violated demanding  better treatment however justifiably so still reflects a lack of responsibility on your part, not to mention an entitled attitude. Yes it is necessary for tech giants to face push back when they act as enforcers for various 'ministries of truth' but there is an almost complete failure to understand or discuss the notion of not putting ourselves in these positions in the first place.
Simply put, if we take the obvious example of Trump getting de-platformed: the reason this happened is because he did not self-host. The @RealDonaldTrump handle was and is not his. He relied on someone else. He then get very upset at how he was treated but almost nowhere has the conversation been had that he could never have been thrown off a social media platform in which you can host your own instance such as Mastodon. The design of Twitter and all hosted social media is one in which none of what you think is yours in fact belongs to you.
If your communication is done through a middleman the ways in which you are dis-empowering yourself are almost too many to mention.
If you are enraged by the behaviour of big data but unable to sacrifice the conveniences they offer you just need to move to a model where you host these conveniences yourself. It is increasingly trivial to do this.
Thankfully it is not only trivial but also hopefully becoming obviously necessary to enough people that we have a shot at critical mass.
People are widely upset about censorship but still largely indifferent to hidden costs to these hosted services. We pay dearly for these platforms in a non-conventional and non-intuitive manner. You give away something you don't realize the value of - the intimate details of your life: your thoughts (expressed through Google searches), your location, your friendships, your sleeping habits, your diet, the list goes on forever, in return for what? Mere convenience as it is possible to do all these things in ways where you pay almost no price whatsoever. Or any price that is paid is a standard transaction where the buyer understands what he is paying for and how he is paying for it.
So why, for the love of God are we decrying abuse that is inevitable and inherent to the design of the technology we use?
Why spend years pressuring big data platforms to dial down the surveillance capitalism and censorship? Tiny victories here and there are annoying when there is something so much better starting at us right in the face. It's simple: Don't use these platforms. There are alternatives. And digital ecosystems are finally reaching the point where technological sophistication is not required by the user.
It is trivial to have social media, cloud storage, chat, web hosting, and most importantly your money entirely under your control by hosting it all yourself.
To make an almost idiotic analogy - if you don't like the direction in which the driver is taking you stop arguing with the driver and get your own vehicle. Then you can drive wherever you like however you like. 
If you refuse to do this, you are the equivalent of man-child still asking his parents for a lift despite being 30 years old and perfectly capable of learning to drive, and buying a vehicle. This is not independence. This is embarrassing.
Can you learn to drive a car? Yes. Is it a right of passage? Absolutely.
Can you break your reliance on Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, Microsoft etc? Of course you can, but we'll come back to this.
Let's talk about money quickly.
If you are using money the way 99% of people do i.e government money held within an institution you are accepting that you are a child and the custodian is your parent. You cannot be trusted to withdraw large amounts or make large transfers. You must explain yourself and obey a strict set of rules when handling what is technically yours but essentially inaccessible unless you, again, operate within the increasingly narrow bounds of some abusive and paternal institution. This is before we even take into account the naive hope that the purchasing power of your money will not be stolen too quickly by those with the ability to dilute what you have stashed away via inflation.
The money you have is a weak indicator of your purchasing power that will constantly evaporate given that it is printed at will by those who consider it essentially worthless in order to rob you . The sneaky tax of inflation is again, ignored by almost everyone. Just like those who write Facebook posts about how awful Zuckerberg is, they rant about how the prices of a million different things they buy have all shot up in price without any regard for the fact that that is a reflection of the instrument they are using to measure value, and nothing to do with the item in question.
Apparently presentation is everything. If extort people's purchasing power from them by force that's theft. If the extortion is civilized enough then it's "taxation" and if it's invisible it's inflation and just how money works. Only the former seems wrong to most people. But I digress….
In a world where there is no alternative we are forced to be slaves to the fiat system, but Bitcoin changed that and now if you choose to ignore it you are no longer a slave but merely childish in your understanding of money. You have not yet looked at the nature of what it is you using to measure and hold value and instead accept condescension from those who (perhaps not so inaccurately) view you as a child for whom they are responsible for while invariable failing to live up to the task as well you would expect.
Bitcoin ownership is the ultimate calling to adulthood. If you lose your coins they are gone and there isn't a entity in this universe than can return them to you. If you can meet the (in my opinion trivial but nonetheless essential) technical barriers to secure ownership they also cannot be confiscated from you by any government entity. They can of course be coerced out of you but not as something inherent to the technology itself. This is as good as it gets for money as a technology.
This is how you can look in the mirror and see an adult. Your money is yours. It's not in someone else's custody who is apparently more capable of keeping it safe for you and who you just hope won't gamble it all away and then bail themselves out of the inevitable hole they dig themselves into using money stolen from you via taxation. 
Even if that was tenable, the pragmatic issues that come as a result are a nightmare. Your money isn't free. It can only do what someone else says it can do. If you want to operate outside their boundaries while using "their" money your life is going to become very complicated and expensive. And what's more - the nature of that boundary is completely inconsistent and unpredictable and also only trending in one direction - it is getting worse and more limiting.
So stepped away from money again and zooming back out….
If we use technology that is emancipating by design we can move to a world where our civil liberties are no longer not native to the platforms we are using and at best merely afforded to us temporarily via some hollow corporate policy that if anything, almost guarantees the opposite of any promise it may make to you.
If any platform you are using offers you liberty conditional on a large, centralized institution's promises, it will be paid for with other liberties and at some point inevitably cease to function in the manner useful to you as well.
Our understanding of morality is basically irrelevant. It is nearly always a question of what's technologically feasible and what isn't. The reason you can say something controversial but might not be able to tweet it is because of a difference in technology. Not because of an inconsistency in our understanding of morality. If the authorities could control what you can do with your throat and mouth then they would. The reason they don't is because the technology doesn't exist.
If you would like to see the world become something it isn't today, the technology for that to happen must be created, adopted, and celebrated. Nothing else is remotely as effective.
The world I want to see is one where we don't merely go back to pre-Covid as that was deeply unsatisfactory too. The technology we had adopted was in service of mass surveillance with some fancy features on top. Phones are tracking devices, text messages are the Stasi steam-opening your mail, Google maps is a policeman on every corner asking you for your papers and noting down your stated destination along with any deviation. This is all ignored because, I believe it is either just too poorly understood or too painful to think about. 
Fundamental understandings and age old principles like doctor/patient/attorney/client privilege  are tossed aside as people communicate through platforms like Zoom/Skype etc where any assumption of privacy is completely unwarranted, but nonetheless granted or just disregarded. No one takes this seriously at all. You are mocked and called paranoid merely for attempting to maintain a once reasonable degree of privacy in spite of technology abusive by design. And this further illustrates the point that our actions and understanding of morality is a reflection of the technology we use and not generally a consideration for its development. It is usually a mere after thought .
So what does the world I want to live in look like? Well, it's free. And freedom comes with the price of responsibility. Always. But this is now perfectly achievable. To make use of the car driving analogy from earlier:
You do not need to know how to actually build the car. But you must at least own it and know how to drive it yourself.
How does this translate to the digital realm? How do you act like an adult and declare your independence?
If it wasn't obvious - through using technology designed to serve and liberate its user, rather than milk them for everything they have.
Let's start with Bitcoin. 
Self-sovereign money means free individuals. I love Bitcoin more than anyone you're likely to meet but at the very least, should you be somehow be against it, it's at least not deliberately designed to steal from you and limit your behaviour. Bitcoin is pretty close to perfect with one potential issue - used without proper understanding surveillance becomes possible and thus people must learn proper practices like coinjoining and coin control/good UTXO management. 
But more importantly with Bitcoin (and Lightning) you must - and I stress absolutely must accept responsibility for your money. 
This doesn't just mean storing your bitcoin at addresses you generated yourself and that you control, it also means verifying that you have the coins you think you have for yourself: this requires running a node and establishing the true state of the network for yourself.
If you don't do this, you are relying on someone else to do it for you. You are saying "I am a child unaware of or uninterested in my own financial self-sovereignty." This is dependence and the path to serfdom. It is ultimately why in the long term I jump for joy when bitcoin is made illegal as it forces people to accept personal responsibility for their money rather than trusting third parties with their money and abandoning their sovereignty for mere convenience without a regard for their freedom. But I digress….
A world with liberty is a world in which people necessarily take responsibility for their own money. Its storage and verification must be handled independently of any authority or third party thus affording you your independence.
Next - how would we communicate? We would use chat platforms that can be and are self-hosted like Matrix. This makes dragnet surveillance impossible and targeted surveillance hugely expensive and time consuming for any entity attempting it. In short, you have, digitally, something almost as good as what you are used to in the analog world, but with all the benefits that come with superior technology. You can have a truly private conversation, but not just with your next door neighbour, with someone on the other side of the planet, with large groups, even whilst completely anonymous. Why? Because you're using technology that is designed for it.
We would continue using the internet but in a manner where our habits were not known to anyone else. TOR makes this easy enough.
What about social networks? Privacy is still a concern of course as only some of what you do you are doing intentionally publicly available  i.e your actual posts. But you DMs certainly aren't, but more importantly the invisible or metadata about your whereabouts, the timing of your engagement with said platform etc. Those remain relevant and compromising to your independence.
But privacy with regard to social networking I will argue is not the main concern - instead it's freedom of speech. 
Once you accept that you are an adult it then becomes unacceptable for a self-appointed paternal entity to decide what is and isn't OK for you to say or to read.
Thus you can no longer rely on platforms that by their nature must do this. Adulthood and independence in this instance means hosting your own social media. In this article I will recommend Mastodon.
In the midst of the ideological conflicts of late 2020 where mass migration was seen away from apparently left-leaning platforms like Facebook and Twitter to platforms dubbed "far-right" like Parler and Gab people completely missed the point.
Car driving analogy to the rescue:
If you hate the direction/driving manner of the driver who's vehicle you depend on the solution is not to find a different driver/vehicle. The solution is to learn to drive and get your own vehicle.
Again this does not mean that you have to build a car yourself. In this case everyone should have just said "I can't rely on centralized platforms to not silence me. In order to be free I must be independent of these platforms entirely." That means self-hosting. Not getting a different host who you hope merely censors people outside of your political silo.
Next - websites.
If you are depending on someone to host your website for you, once again you are the child and they are the parent. Thus, again you must host your own.
The list goes on but now I'd like to talk about how I believe there is cause for optimism.
Firstly, like all calls to maturity: digital independence must be declared at an individual level. No one can force you to grow up.
This is not we the people: This is I the person.
That said, for the world to be tolerable to those who watch in horror as I do at the truly tragic loss of our civil liberties, this must happen on a large enough scale to be meaningful. If only ten people end up using the technologies created as tools of emancipation then they didn't succeed.
So what does that mean? Pragmatically speaking: a low barrier to entry. These applications must be usable by pretty much anyone fairly trivially and with a user experience comparable to the platforms everyone currently relies on.
This is within reach.
One thing that must be stressed is that the current dynamic of almost everyone's day to day digital experience is client/server (or more aptly: slave/master). Put simply; independence requires running your own server.
For this to be realistic someone has to design something plug n' play otherwise this will be limited by an unrealistic expectation of technological sophistication on the part of humans in general. All the essential services you use must be permanently available to you and not require any one's permission but your own. 
Enter the concept of the Personal Server - the second and until now neglected counterpart to the personal computing revolution.
Our usage of technology means that almost everything is done remotely placing an inordinate amount of power in the hands of those running the servers for the services we use. This is dependence which can only be broken by running your own server.
To reiterate: You cannot be an adult and rely on third parties to handle all your cloud storage, web hosting, lightning channels, chat or social networking.
Thankfully the tools of independence can be manufactured by someone else and utilized by anyone. At the moment the only company I know of doing this is Start9. A box, you buy, then plug in, then connect to with any device, anywhere in the world that allows you to socialize, chat, host websites, "cloud" and "bitcoin" all you like. 
In my mind this is a game changer. Sure I want to be realistic, maybe people just aren't ever going to gain any interest in acquiring independence in the digital realm but as I said, I do see a reason to be optimistic.
We had something like a billion people migrate to Signal and Telegram after Donald Trump was erased from hosted/non-sovereign social media platforms. The apps were so overwhelmed that Signal barely worked for two weeks. This was both sad and inspiring to see. Sad because everyone still missed the point - switching from one hosted platform to another doesn't really solve your problem as highlighted in the last car analogy, but inspiring because we know the will is at least there. 
People are genuinely sick of being treated like children.
This being the case what are we left with? Take a look at the world. We are not putting the technology  cat back in the bag, so appeals to Luddite/caveman/goldbuggery are both misguided and incorrectly  pessimistic. We have technology and it is only going to get more sophisticated. We must use it wisely or continue to face increasingly dire consequences.
The final point that I want to stress in this article is this:
Technology is power. It can both empower and subjugate. If you do not like the current trend then you must fight with everything you have for the development and ubiquitous use of empowering technology.
Right now, digitally speaking, we have a species, hopelessly dependent on the decisions of a tiny group of people who cannot be trusted with the responsibility we have placed in them due to disinterest and ignorance that becomes increasingly inexcusable as empowering tech becomes genuinely realistic for the average human.
At some point it has to become nothing short of embarrassing for a person to rely on a hosted platform for their essential activities when it is completely unnecessary to do so. Self-hosting has to become the default. 
Like not bursting out into tears in a bakery because they don't have your favourite sandwich that day - Imagine if we were all that pathetic. What does that world look like to you? Because that's what modern life should look like to you right now. Dependence is embarrassing.
To wrap up: Host your own services. Go bespoke if you are capable; but if you aren't like 99% of us - buy a tool designed to help you, like an Embassy.
